kata-webhook/README.md, before:

# Kata Admission controller webhook

Implement a simple admission controller webhook to annotate pods with the 
Kata runtime class.

## How to build the admission controller

> **Note:**
> Only run this step if you are modifying the current webhook or don't
> want to use the webhook available in docker hub.

First build the admission controller image and the associated
Kubernetes YAML files required to instantiate the admission
controller.

```bash
$ docker build -t quay.io/kata-containers/kata-webhook-example:latest -f Dockerfile .
```

> **Note:**
> Image needs to be published for the webhook needs to work. Alternately
> on a single machine cluster change the `imagePullPolicy` to use the locally
> built image.

## Making Kata the default runtime using an admission controller

Today in `crio.conf` `runc` is the default runtime when a user does not specify
`runtimeClass` in the pod spec. If you want to run a cluster where Kata is used
by default, except for workloads we know for sure will not work with Kata, use
the [admission webhook](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#admission-webhooks)
and sample admission controller we created by running the commands below:

> **Note:**
> By default, the `runtimeClass` name used in this webhook is `kata`. If your
> cluster is configured with another `runtimeClass`, you'll need to change the
> value of the `RUNTIME_CLASS` environment variable defined in the
> [webhook file](deploy/webhook.yaml). You can manually edit the file or use
> the `yq` tool. E.g:
> `~/go/bin/yq w -i webhook.yaml spec.template.spec.containers[0].env[0].value "kata-clh"`

```bash
$ ./create_certs.sh
$ kubectl apply -f deploy/
```

The webhook mutates pods to use the Kata runtime class for all pods except
those with 

* `hostNetwork: true` 
* namespace: `rook-ceph` and `rook-ceph-system`

Commit message:

kata-webhook: Introduce the webhook-check.sh script
The webhook-check.sh should be used to check the kata-webhook was deployed
correctly and is working.

Fixes #3639
Signed-off-by: Wainer dos Santos Moschetta <wainersm@redhat.com>

kata-webhook/README.md, after:

# Kata Admission controller webhook

Implement a simple admission controller webhook to annotate pods with the 
Kata runtime class.

## How to build the admission controller

> **Note:**
> Only run this step if you are modifying the current webhook or don't
> want to use the webhook available in docker hub.

First build the admission controller image and the associated
Kubernetes YAML files required to instantiate the admission
controller.

```bash
$ docker build -t quay.io/kata-containers/kata-webhook-example:latest -f Dockerfile .
```

> **Note:**
> Image needs to be published for the webhook needs to work. Alternately
> on a single machine cluster change the `imagePullPolicy` to use the locally
> built image.

## Making Kata the default runtime using an admission controller

Today in `crio.conf` `runc` is the default runtime when a user does not specify
`runtimeClass` in the pod spec. If you want to run a cluster where Kata is used
by default, except for workloads we know for sure will not work with Kata, use
the [admission webhook](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#admission-webhooks)
and sample admission controller we created by running the commands below:

> **Note:**
> By default, the `runtimeClass` name used in this webhook is `kata`. If your
> cluster is configured with another `runtimeClass`, you'll need to change the
> value of the `RUNTIME_CLASS` environment variable defined in the
> [webhook file](deploy/webhook.yaml). You can manually edit the file or use
> the `yq` tool. E.g:
> `~/go/bin/yq w -i webhook.yaml spec.template.spec.containers[0].env[0].value "kata-clh"`

```bash
$ ./create_certs.sh
$ kubectl apply -f deploy/
```

Afterwards you can run the `webhook-check.sh` script to check the webhook was
deployed correctly and is working:

```bash
$ ./webhook-check.sh
```

The webhook mutates pods to use the Kata runtime class for all pods except
those with 

* `hostNetwork: true` 
* namespace: `rook-ceph` and `rook-ceph-system`
